My body numbs in the scorching sun as I pick up the basketball once more from what I casually dismiss as my iron deficiency kicking in. After my umpteenth consecutive swish, I figured something was off. I suck at basketball. Teleporting from my best friend?s backyard to 1989 Tiananmen Square, I realized I was dreaming, and?my eyelids parted. This was the moment I knew I needed to study lucid dreams.

The story goes that Frederik van Eeden defined lucid dreams. But that?s not quite true. He?s to credit for its modern definition, but the real genius was Parisian oneirologist Marquis d'Hervey, who coined the term we know today?les r?ves lucides?in his anonymous 1867 masterpiece. The idea itself? It?s as old as Aristotle; simple, but profound. We can use our dreams to simulate anything?teleporting, flying, even sports.

I fell in love with dreams?Freud?s texts quickly filled my bedside shelves; my daily journal turned into a dream journal; my computer?s tabs clogged with LaBerge?s papers, Walker?s podcast, and Dement?s lectures. Nevertheless, I couldn?t find definitive answers as to why I dream, how manifest relates to latent content, and how best to induce lucidity.

I endlessly browsed the work of dream philosophers and researchers, unsure of which path to take?the purely intuitional or the scientifically rigorous. I ended up in the latter, somewhat by chance. A paper on the rising popularity of lucid dreaming following Inception?s premiere caught my eye, and the paper?s author graciously opened his door to me.

One year later: Tucson, Arizona. I?m dizzy again, this time from the human's-perspective-of-reality-scorching-sun as I enter the conference of the century. Sitting at a table of the world?s leading dream gurus?my professor, the masterminds behind the experiments I?ve been studying, even LaBergeI experience a flashback to the first night this world entered my life.

I watch in awe as the definition of lucid dreams is modified from awareness+control to encompass just the former. I sit intently and listen as the experts debate prototype scales for objectively measuring lucidity. I did a quick reality check to ensure this wasn?t also a dream, and?it wasn?t. My mirror neurons blaze as I mentally take note of studies to include in my section of our consensus paper.

To be frank, I got lucky with my dream. If I?d been on a red eye that night, or my cat woke me up before entering REM, then this whole piece would be fiction. There are myriad fascinating fields out there that students would adore as much as I love dreams, though we?re just not exposed to them in the classroom. I believe learning must be a self-directed, endless exploratory process of reading, listening, and thinking, classrooms being the exterior of an elaborate intellectual mansion that?s constantly heightening. This is why I love reading melanges of books, listening to Revisionist History, and signing up for any conferences or lectures I come across. To challenge my dilettante status and level up to polymath. And to help ignite this intellectual ammunition for others.
This is why I give TED talks and mentor others to write their own, and run the SHP Speakers Bureau. Each time we host an up-and-coming scientist, promising startup founder, or Emmy award laureate, my brain explodes with the cognitive firepower I?ve just been armed with. My take? It s important to be not only a polymath but a dilettante as well. Not just an aficionado but also a pioneer that dares to think big (I love sharp, refreshing verbs).
And my purpose on Earth?whether it be teaching my classmates about Tiananmen Square or sustainability entrepreneurs about effective ways to engage the youth?is to pass off a sliver of my knowledge, a fresh take on how I see the world, and inspire someone to do something they grow to love. In whatever I pursue, this is my purpose my passion.